---
title: '[!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.7 service pack release notes'
description: Release notes for [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.7 service pack
contentOwner: AK
mini-toc-levels: 2
exl-id: 70b80497-8628-4cad-ac2d-314f759bcf3f
solution: Experience Manager
feature: Release Information
role: User,Admin,Developer
---
# [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.7.0 {#experience-manager-6570}

[!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.7.0 is an important update that includes new features, key customer requested enhancements, and performance, stability, and security improvements, that are released since the availability of 6.5 release in April 2019. The Service Pack is installed on [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.

The key features and enhancements introduced in [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.7.0 includes:

* Performing the page moves and MSM rollouts as asynchronous operations to reduce their impact on runtime performance.

* Users can sort digital assets in Card and Column views.

* [!DNL Assets] and [!DNL Dynamic Media] provide multiple accessibility enhancements. The enhancements are related to keyboard navigation, use of screen readers, and enabling users to use similar assistive technology (AT). See [[!DNL Assets] enhancements](#assets-6570) and [[!DNL Dynamic Media] enhancements](#dynamic-media-6570).

* [Form data model HTTP client configuration](/help/forms/using/configure-data-sources.md#fdm-http-client-configuration) to optimize performance.

* [Availability of Reset Option for each component](/help/forms/using/resize-using-layout-mode.md#resize-components) in the Layout mode

* [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5 Service Pack 7 Forms improves the performance for:

  * Validating the field values on the server when you submit an adaptive form.

  * Converting a PDF form to an adaptive form using the [!DNL Automated Forms Conversion service].

* Support for [!DNL Microsoft SQL Server] 2019 in [!DNL Experience Manager Forms].

* Support for [!DNL Microsoft] SQL Server 2016 Always On availability groups for High Availability for OSGi deployments.

* The built-in repository (Apache Jackrabbit Oak) is updated to version 1.22.5.

The following is the list of fixes provided in [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.7.0 release.

## [!DNL Sites] {#sites-6570}

* When you open the [!UICONTROL Timewrap] option for a page, keep the Timeline side rail option open, and navigate to [!UICONTROL Sites] console, the `Failed to Load` error occurs (NPR-34951).

* The [!UICONTROL Timewrap] option does not display images for the selected date and time range (NPR-34951).

* When a filter calls `getHeader()` from a page containing a Content Fragment, the `java.lang.AbstractMethodError` error occurs (NPR-34942).

* When the path of a page contains multiple content substrings, previews fail to render, and the version compare function also fails (NPR-34740).

* When you set a numeric value for the `String` type label property of a component, you can delete the component and undo the delete operation. However, after undoing the delete, the label property changes from `String` to `Long` (NPR-34739).

* The following exception occurs on adding an Experience Fragment based on a template with a locked layout to a page (NPR-34632):

   ```TXT
   org.apache.sling.api.SlingException: Cannot get DefaultSlingScript: org.apache.sling.api.SlingException: Cannot get DefaultSlingScript: org.mozilla.javascript.EcmaError: TypeError: Cannot call method "getChildren" of null
   ```

* When you move a folder, it results in traversal issues and the following error occurs (NPR-34554):

   ```TXT
   org.apache.sling.api.SlingException: Cannot get DefaultSlingScript. org.apache.jackrabbit.oak.query.RuntimeNodeTraversalException: The query read or traversed more than 100000 nodes. To avoid affecting other tasks, processing was stopped
   ```

* When new assets are created, published, and moved to a new location, the `Request to complete move operation` workflow gets created and results in an Aborted state. Uploading a new asset and executing a `move` operation results in creating the `Request to complete move operation` workflow in pending state (NPR-34543).

* When you export an Experience Fragment from [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.2 environment to [!DNL Target] Standard, the API call fails because the workspace property is not available for [!DNL Target] Standard (NPR-34557).

* Users cannot publish pages through the [!UICONTROL manage publication] option because the [!UICONTROL Publish] option disappears (NPR-34542).

* When you add some styles to the text, a `<div>` tag is added to the text, and the style cannot be applied to the text anymore (NPR-34531).

* When you select an item in a pop-up menu and update the required files, it does not allow saving dialog values as the other menu has an empty required field (NPR-34529).

* When you create a page from a custom template and move it within the blueprint hierarchy, components deleted earlier from the page starts showing up on the page within the live copy hierarchy (NPR-34527).

* Once an article style is applied to a content, it cannot be removed (NPR-34486).

* All live copies and copies of an Experience Fragment point to the same [!DNL Adobe Target] offer ID (NPR-34469).

* Bulleted list items are displayed in addition to the numbered list (NPR-34455).

* The compare to source option fails to show the difference between the source page and the edited version of a page (NPR-34285).

* When you delete a page, the versioning details are not configurable (NPR-34159).

* When a user selects the [!UICONTROL Open Selection] dialog option, the keyboard focus moves to the hidden control present on the page (CQ-4307779, CQ-4293601).

* When you move a published folder on the Author, the folder paths are not updated accordingly on the Publish instance (CQ-4305144).

* When a user select the `Enter` key on the [!UICONTROL Select All] option, the keyboard focus does not move to the [!UICONTROL Create Control] option (CQ-4293599).

* When you select the `Esc` key, the focus is not restored to the parent control (CQ-4293593, CQ-4293590).

* Improved WCAG compliance for [!DNL Sites] UI and Core components (CQ-4293448).

* [!UICONTROL Zoom] and [!UICONTROL Scale] functions are disabled for the [!DNL Sites Editor] page (CQ-4282353).

* After you use the Rotate Right option, the screen reader stops narrating the current rotation or flip state (CQ-4282128).

* Done and Cancel Configure dialog buttons have many tab-stops (CQ-4274601).

* Moving of pages with a similar name on the same level is not allowed (NPR-35041).

* After selecting the Clear (x) option, the keyboard focus does not move to the [!UICONTROL Filter] field (CQ-4293581).

* When you upgrade to [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.6.0, behavior of the inherited paragraph system changes and it does not work properly (NPR-35117).

* Keyboard users are not able to shift the tab focus in an appropriate order after selecting the [!UICONTROL Action] section on an [!DNL AEM Sites] page (CQ-4307786).

* After selecting an option in the link target menu list of the RTE toolbar when editing a content fragment, the content fragment author dialog starts to flicker (CQ-4305532).

* Keyboard users are not able to select the options in the [!UICONTROL Add Component] drop-down list using the Down arrow key (CQ-4295097).

* The tab focus does not shift in an appropriate order when selecting a date from the Calendar menu in the [!UICONTROL Assets] tab of a [!DNL Sites] page (CQ-4293600).

* The tab focus does not shift to the next or previous options for keyboard users after deleting the Link or Text options available when editing a Sites page (CQ-4293597).

* Keyboard users are not able to shift tab focus back to More options in the [!UICONTROL Actions] section after viewing the available options and pressing the `Esc` key (CQ-4293592).

* When you activate the [!UICONTROL Rotate] option for an image in the [!UICONTROL Edit] mode, the tab focus, instead of remaining on Rotate, shifts to the [!UICONTROL Redo] option for the keyboard users (CQ-4293587).

* In the [!UICONTROL Open Selection] dialog available on the [!UICONTROL Link and Actions] tab, the tab focus shifts to hidden elements in the page after the [!UICONTROL Cancel] option (CQ-4293579).

* When keyboard users edit an image, navigate to the [!UICONTROL Finish] option, and press the Enter key, the screen readers do not announce the completion (CQ-4282351).

* The Move up and Move down options available on the [!UICONTROL Link and Actions] dialog are not available to the screen reader and keyboard users (CQ-4281120).

* Keyboard users are not able to restore the tab focus after navigating to the Close (X) option on the [!UICONTROL Properties] page (CQ-4293581, NPR-34653).

## [!DNL Assets] {#assets-6570}

[!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.7.0 [!DNL Assets] fixes the following issues and provides the following enhancements.

* The following enhancements are done for accessibility in [!DNL Experience Manager Assets] in this release. For more information, see [accessibility features in [!DNL Assets]](/help/assets/accessibility.md).

  * When navigating timeline using a keyboard, the `Esc` key can collapse the [!UICONTROL Show All] option without losing the focus (CQ-4293598).
  * When navigating using keyboard tab key, after removing the last tag from the added tags, the tag field retains the focus (NPR-35109).
  * [!DNL Experience Manager] components now contain appropriate information for name, role, and value to be used by screen readers (NPR-34255).
  * After you delete the Type/Size combo box, Link combo box, Language combo box, or Text edit box, the keyboard focus returns to the next or the previous user interface elements or to a more relevant user interface element (CQ-4293585).
  * When hovering pointer over options, tips such as Select and Download appear. Users who use a screen magnifier may not see the file thumbnails because of these tips. Now, it is possible to preserve the focus, after removing the option using `Escape` key. (CQ-4293554).
  * Upon selecting a grid cell from the grid present in the page, the focus shifts to the action bar that appears on the screen (CQ-4282127).
  * Visual users can differentiate between normal text and a link, as visual clues (underline and chevron icon) are displayed for links to all solutions in [!DNL Experience Manager] home page (CQ-4282072).

* The following user experience enhancement is done in [!DNL Assets]:

  * Enable sorting of assets in card view and column view (NPR-35097).

* After the upgrade to 6.5, if a JSON file is generated using the Assets HTTP API, there are issues with the encoding used in the file (NPR-35129).

* Users of a group that is not provided the permission to create Collections (Create Collection option is unavailable) are still able to create collections by directly accessing the URL `https://[aem_server]:[port]/mnt/overlay/dam/gui/content/collections/createcollectionwizard.html/content/dam/collections?contentPath=/content/dam/collections` (NPR-35115).

* When sorted by name, the searched assets are sorted in case-sensitive manner. This creates two separate sorted lists based on casing that appearing in ordered manner in the search results (NPR-35068).

* When a Content Fragment is opened in the editor, warning messages (`Invalid value specified for a metadata property`) are logged in the error logs (NPR-35012).

* Users without administrator privilege can edit expired assets using [Experience Manager] desktop app. (NPR-34993).

* When the same Asset is dragged on the Assets user interface and a new version is created, the changes in the metadata are not persistent (NPR-34940).

* When editing Collections, a user can delete the title of the Collection and successfully save the changes (NPR-34889).

* When uploading a duplicate image, a delete option is presented. Selecting delete lets the images upload. DAM Update Asset workflow is also triggered (NPR-34744).

* When using [!DNL Adobe Asset Link] with [!DNL Adobe InDesign], the search results do not contain folders and collections but only contain assets (NPR-34699, CQ-4303666).

* Hovering pointer on card view, makes the screen scroll as a result of (automatic) focus on the quick actions available in the card (NPR-34514).

* When editing the properties of multiple assets in bulk, selecting the [!UICONTROL Save] option closes the bulk editor view and redirects to the main [!DNL Assets] page. This behavior is same as the behavior of [!UICONTROL Save & Close] option and is not expected (NPR-34546).

* The smart collection does not present the correct user interface setting after saving. The query is saved properly but the interface always displays the last added Option predicate (NPR-34539).

* When adding assets to [!DNL Experience Manager], the metadata without a namespace does not get imported (NPR-34530).

* When dragging an asset on a folder to move it, the user interface also displays the option to [!UICONTROL Drop in Lightbox] and [!UICONTROL Drop in Collection]. Even if the move operation is canceled, the user interface continues to display the latter two options (NPR-34526).

* The symbol `%>` is displayed on the collections page (NPR-34499).

* In column view, [!DNL Assets] displays duplicate folder and asset names when scrolling upward and downward before all assets get displayed (NPR-34464).

* If you create a private folder immediately after creating a public folder, then the public folder uses the private folder settings (NPR-34415).

* In the card view, the cards are not listed in alphabetical order and cards cannot be sorted alphabetically (NPR-34234).

* When reopening cascading rules, the choices are not maintained on the user interface (CQ-4301452).

### [!DNL Dynamic Media] {#dynamic-media-6570}

* The following enhancements are done for accessibility in [!DNL Dynamic Media] (CQ-4290306). For details, see [accessibility features in [!DNL Dynamic Media]](/help/assets/accessibility-dm.md).

  * Screen readers (JAWS, Narrator) narrate the name, role, and state for the menu items in the Embed size menu option (CQ-4290927).
  * Users can navigate the Email link dialog using the `Tab` key (CQ-4290926).
  * The workflow to create video encoding profiles is more user-friendly given the screen reader enhancement (CQ-4290623, CQ-4290622).
  * When navigating using `Tab` key, the focus moves to the appropriate user interface elements in the workflow to create an interactive video (CQ-4290621, CQ-4290620, CQ-4290619).
  * The Publish page, Edit Asset page, Edit Smart Crops page, and Image Set Editor page are improved to comply with web standards. Assistive technology (AT) users can now navigate these pages easily and take actions such as cropping images (CQ-4290617, CQ-4290616, CQ-4290613, CQ-4290612, CQ-4290610, CQ-4290614).
  * Viewers are improved to let users navigate using a keyboard (CQ-4290615).
  * The keyboard and screen reader users can use the crop functionality (CQ-4290609).
  * The keyboard users can better manage the hotspots (CQ-4290604, CQ-4290603).

* Remote Imagesets are not editable in [!DNL Experience Manager] if the company name and folder name are the same (NPR-31340).

* The z-index order is incorrect when you try to preview the output after adding a hotspot to a [!DNL Dynamic Media] image or after editing a [!DNL Dynamic Media] video or an [!DNL Experience Fragment] with an image (CQ-4307267).

* [!DNL Dynamic Media] sync fails when mixed media sets are reprocessed (CQ-4307184).

* If an asset is moved to a folder on which auto-synchronization to [!DNL Dynamic Media] is configured, the asset does not synchronize (CQ-4307122).

* [!DNL Dynamic Media] video is not playing on iOS devices with the native HTML5 video controls (CQ-4306977, CQ-4306727).

* Cannot download images on which SmartCrop is applied (CQ-4304558).

* Cannot selectively publish folders to Dynamic Media (CQ-4304526).

* Unpublishing a video file from [!DNL Experience Manager] do not unpublish the Adaptive Video Set from a configured Scene7 deployment (CQ-4304405).

* Adding a panoramic image asset in a panoramic media component and refreshing the page results in `Uncaught ReferenceError: $ is not defined` error (CQ-4302810).

* In the [!UICONTROL Viewer Presets Editor], when editing [!UICONTROL PanoramicImage/PanoramicImage_VR] preset, in the `PanoramicView` component, the `PANORAMICVIEW_AUTOROTATE` modifier label is not available (CQ-4302443).

* Video captions are not displayed if the video is not the first in a MixedMediaSet (CQ-4298161).

* HTML5 eCatalog Viewer on iPhones mobile devices cannot turn the pages or flip the pages (CQ-4296611).

* When scrolling swatches on a mobile device, the swatches scroll to the right and out of the visible area for a few seconds before scrolling back into view (CQ-4296439).

* When a Viewer Preset Master Record is created, the CSS and artwork do not get published and only the viewer preset gets published (CQ-4262205).

* When attempting to link an Experience Fragment for a given hotspot in the [!UICONTROL Interactive Video/Images] component, it does not show the selected Experience Fragment path. Instead, it returns an empty value from the path field (NPR-35146, CQ-4298136).

* Cannot preview an Experience Fragment in IVV Editor (CQ-4308560).

* When adding a hotspot to an image and selecting an Experience Fragment, it is not possible to select the subfolders and the variants of the Experience Fragment (CQ-4307455).

* The non-image assets do not show as published after uploading (CQ-4306415).

### [!DNL Experience Manager] 3D assets {#three-d-assets-6570}

* `DAM CQ MIME Type` service applies incorrect MIME types to 3D assets leading to incorrect rendering (NPR-34731).

## [!DNL Commerce] {#commerce-6570}

* The Commerce product collection user interface does not list more than 15 products within a collection (NPR-34502).

## Platform {#platform-6570}

* An HTTP session over HTTPS is not invalidated (NPR-35083).
* A `NullPointerException` is returned when starting daily or weekly maintenance tasks from user interface (NPR-34953).
* The W3C validator reports warnings for compliant client library JavaScript files (NPR-34898).
* The `AudienceOmniSearchHandler` function uses a deprecated index (NPR-34870).
* Signing out from Experience Manager does not clear the cookies (NPR-34743).
* The `findByTitle` function of the `TagManager` API does not work if the tag name contains a special character (NPR-34357).
* The process to import user sync package fails (NPR-34399).
* Added support for `ariaLabel` and `ariaLabelledby` properties to the `Coral.Masonry` component (GRANITE-29962).
* Dispatcher cache is not refreshed for pages with content fragments after installing the latest core component packages (CQ-4306788).
* Localized tag names with quotation marks (`"`) are not displayed properly on the user interface (CQ-4305439).

## User interface {#ui-6570}

* The [!UICONTROL Link to] field in component properties displays autocomplete suggestions that do not match the specified string (NPR-34865).

* AEM displays the following error message when you schedule a daily maintenance window distributed between 2 days (NPR-35280):

   ```TXT
   ERROR The start time must precede (be less than) the end time
   ```

## Integrations {#integrations-6570}

* Editing an existing [!DNL Adobe Launch] configuration fails (NPR-35045).
* Cannot export [!DNL Experience Fragments] to [!DNL Adobe Target] if using IMS configuration and [!DNL Adobe Target Standard] environment (NPR-34555).
* The [!UICONTROL Create] option appears on the [!UICONTROL Audiences] page on navigating from a folder to the [!UICONTROL Audiences] page (NPR-35151).

## Sling {#sling-6570}

* The default login health check validates the credentials of a user that does not exist (NPR-34686).

## Translation projects {#translation-6570}

* On canceling a translation project in [!DNL Experience Manager], the request to cancel it is not sent to the translation provider (NPR-34433).

## [!DNL Communities] {#communities-6570}

* All the instances of inequitable terminology in the product are replaced with accepted equivalents (NPR-34311).
* [!DNL Google+] is removed from the list of social sharing options (NPR-33877).

## [!DNL Brand Portal] {#brandportal-6570}

* The user interface does not respond on selecting the assets in the [!UICONTROL List View] (NPR-34728).

## [!DNL Forms] {#forms-6570}

>[!NOTE]
>
>[!DNL Experience Manager Forms] releases the add-on packages one week after the scheduled [!DNL Experience Manager] Service Pack release date.

>[!NOTE]
>
>[!DNL Experience Manager] Service Pack does not include fixes for [!DNL Forms]. They are delivered using a separate [!DNL Forms] add-on package. In addition, a cumulative installer is released that includes fixes for [!DNL Experience Manager Forms] on JEE. For more information, see [Install AEM Forms add-on](#install-aem-forms-add-on-package) and [Install AEM Forms on JEE](#install-aem-forms-jee-installer).

**Adaptive Forms**

* Unable to edit an adaptive form using Classic UI after applying [!DNL Experience Manager] Service Pack 6 (NPR-35126).

* When you convert a PDF to an adaptive form, you cannot set a value for a nested panel using a form data model on the tabbed layout. In addition, there are issues when setting a value for Radio Button Groups dynamically with a static array using the code editor (NPR-35062).

* When you enter Japanese characters in a text field component in an adaptive form, you can specify more characters than the maximum limit of 35 characters (NPR-35039).

* The adaptive form displays unwanted parameters, such as `owner` and `status`, on the **[!UICONTROL Thank you]** page displayed after submitting the form (NPR-34989).

* The [!UICONTROL File Selection] dialog for the [!UICONTROL Attachment] component displays the unsupported file types as well for selection resulting in error during adaptive form submission (NPR-34970).

* When you insert an adaptive form in an [!DNL Experience Manager Sites] page that includes text before the form, the cursor focus directly moves to the form instead of the text before the form (NPR-34947).

* [!UICONTROL Preview with Data] option to prefill an adaptive form using an [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.2 data XML file does not work appropriately (NPR-35087).

* When you update the data dictionary for an adaptive form, the form does not get translated as the adaptive form returns cached values (NPR-34845).

* Fragments take longer time to load in an adaptive form because of cache invalidation (NPR-34567).

* Tab navigation does not work appropriately for screen readers in an adaptive form (NPR-34544).

**Correspondence Management**

* Unable to save values for XML tags with numeric data, which includes float type, as a draft (NPR-35050).

* When you migrate the assets from ES3, the assets include two non-editable default conditions (NPR-34972).

* When you edit a data dictionary in a letter, the [!UICONTROL Lent Content] section displays spinning rectangles instead of useful information (NPR-34853).

**Interactive Communication**

* The rollout configuration name for Interactive Communication, available after installing the [!DNL Forms] add-on package, duplicates the standard rollout configuration name (NPR-34976).

**Document Security**

* When you save a new document security policy, Experience Manager Forms displays the `Relative validity period is required` error message (NPR-34679).

* Document Security is not able to protect PDF 2.0 document (CQ-4305851).

For information on security updates, see [Experience Manager security bulletins page](https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/experience-manager.html).

## UberJar {#uber-jar}

The UberJar for Experience Manager 6.5.7.0 is available in the [Maven Central repository](https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/com/adobe/aem/uber-jar/6.5.7/).

To use UberJar in a Maven project, see [how to use UberJar](/help/sites-developing/ht-projects-maven.md) and include the following dependency in your project POM:

```shell
<dependency>
     <groupId>com.adobe.aem</groupId>
     <artifactId>uber-jar</artifactId>
     <version>6.5.7</version>
     <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

>[!NOTE]
>
>UberJar and the other related artifacts are available on Maven Central Repository instead of Adobe Public Maven repository (`repo.maven.apache.org`). The main UberJar file is renamed to `uber-jar-<version>.jar`. So, there is no `classifier`, with `apis` as the value, for the `dependency` tag.
