---
title: Release Notes for [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0
description: Find release information, what's new, install how-tos, and a detailed change list for [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5.
mini-toc-levels: 3
exl-id: fc7d3727-7cd4-47a4-8e75-840f9f9c0e62
---
# [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5 Latest Service Pack Release Notes {#aem-service-pack-release-notes}

<!-- For an itemized list of all issues found in these release notes, see the following spreadsheet: https://adobe-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/personal/anujkapo_adobe_com/Documents/issue_tracker_sp_cfp_updates.xlsx?d=w3ea81ae4e6054153b132f2698c86f84e&csf=1&web=1&e=WRAZ43&nav=MTVfezk2OTJDQTNFLUI4QTQtNDY2RS05NEVCLUQ5QjcyNEVENkJDNn0 -->

## Release information {#release-information}

| Product | [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] 6.5 |
| -------- | ---------------------------- |
| Version  | 6.5.16.0 <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->                     |
| Type     | Service Pack release         |
| Date     | Thursday, February 23, 2023 <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->              |
| Download URL | [Software Distribution](https://experience.adobe.com/#/downloads/content/software-distribution/en/aem.html?pack[…]be/packages/cq650/servicepack/aem-service-pkg-6.5.16.0.zip) <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->|

## What is included in [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 {#what-is-included-in-aem-6516}

[!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 includes new features, key customer-requested enhancements, bug fixes, and performance, stability, and security improvements that are released since the initial availability of 6.5 in April 2019. [Install this service pack](#install) on [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5. <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

<!-- Some of the key features and improvements are the following:

* _REVIEWERS: WHAT ARE THE KEY FEATURES AND ENHANCEMENTS YOU WANT TO HIGHLIGHT IN THIS RELEASE?_ -->

A key improvement in Dynamic Media is the following:

New protocol DASH (Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP) supports launched for adaptive bitrate streaming in Dynamic Media video delivery (with CMAF [Common Media Application Format] enabled).

* Adaptive streaming (DASH/HLS) ensures better end user viewing experience for videos.
* DASH is the international standard protocol for adaptive video streaming and is widely adopted in the industry.
* Available now in Asia-Pacific and North America (to be enabled by way of a support ticket); coming soon in Europe-Middle East-Africa.

See [Enable DASH on your account](/help/assets/video.md#enable-dash).

<!-- UPDATE BELOW FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

## [!DNL Assets] {#assets-6516}

* Connected Assets: When you enable the Smart Crop options for images on remote DAM, upload images to a folder, and sync the folder to local sites, the folder does not open on the local Sites deployment. (NPR-39912)
* While sorting a collection by name, the list view is not working appropriately (ASSETS-19401)
* When a large media file (JPEG) is uploaded to Collections, Experience Manager stops responding. (ASSETS-19387)
* In the content tree pane, the displayed asset name is incorrect as the location of the asset is not rendered appropriately. (ASSETS-18870)
* While sharing a Collection using a link, the data in the URL mismatches between the shuffle of card view and list view. (ASSETS-18758)
* When you perform an omnisearch by using a filter on the folder type, the search results are inconsistent. (ASSETS-18227)
* The `dam:size` property is not updated after XMP writeback, which results in incorrect information being returned from the `/platform/path/to/asset.jpg;resource=metadata` API. (ASSETS-17631)
* Unclosed resource resolver on all Experience Manager instances. (ASSETS-16904)
* Unable to create a version for an asset even if you are assigned the `create` and `modify` permissions. (ASSETS-15956)
* The `move` button is disabled randomly while moving an asset from one point to another. (ASSETS-14889)
* Screen readers are unable to identify headings, as the text is not defined inside heading tags but as the general text. (ASSETS-6924)
* The alternative text under the image is not mandatory but the text displayed under the image is repetitive with a `Type` attribute. (ASSETS-6915)


## [!DNL Assets] - [!DNL Dynamic Media] {#dm-6516}

*   Form element does not contain label. With screen readers such as NVDA and JAWS, Form label information is not announcing properly. (CQ-4344078)
*   Drop-downs are not getting closed when the `Escape` key is used on a keyboard. (CQ-4344077)
*   The Information icon (the letter "i") that appears for the inline error suggestion after an invalid input is given, is not accessible using a keyboard. (CQ-4344076)
*   `getManifestURI` returns null due to a JCR property being read as `toString` instead of `getString`. (ASSETS-18674)
*   SmartCrop video component is not behaving correctly. The component is carrying-out playback instead of streaming, and VTT calls are failing, giving a 404 error. (ASSETS-18468)
*   Selecting **[!UICONTROL Properties]** on an asset's Viewer page causes a null pointer exception. (ASSETS-18420)
*   [!DNL Experience Manager] user interface changes for DASH streaming that includes the following:
    *   having a visible CMAF field in the Video Profile editor.
    *   having the video upload process send a CMAF flag.
    *   the options **[!UICONTROL auto]**, **[!UICONTROL hls]**, and **[!UICONTROL dash]** are now available in the playback drop-down list in the Viewer Preset editor's **[!UICONTROL Behavior]** tab. 
    (ASSETS-17428)
*   In Navigation, when you select **[!UICONTROL Assets]** > **[!UICONTROL Files]** > **[!UICONTROL Create]** > **[!UICONTROL Carousel Set]**, the picture icon is overlapped with "Slide 1" text string. (ASSETS-18578)
*   Unpublished assets are published again. (ASSETS-16428)
*   Experience Manager Author goes down due to a load issue, prompting the creation of a synthetic alert. (ASSETS-15937)
*   In the Dynamic Media General Settings page, an untranslated error message `Failed to fetch data` appears. (ASSETS-15617)

## [!DNL Forms] {#forms-6516}

### [!DNL Forms] Key Features {#forms-features-6516}

* [Headless Adaptive Forms](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-headless-adaptive-forms/using/overview.html) enable your developers to create, publish, and manage interactive forms that can be accessed and interacted with through APIs, rather than through a traditional graphical user interface. 

*  [Adaptive Forms Core Components](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-core-components/using/adaptive-forms/introduction.html#features) are a set of 24 open-source, BEM-compliant components that are built on the foundation of the Adobe Experience Manager WCM Core Components. These components are open-source and provide developers the ability to easily customize and extend these components to match the specific needs of their organization. Anyone with existing skills to customize [WCM Core components](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-core-components/using/get-started/authoring.html?lang=en) can easily customize and style these components.

* The Reader Extension service on OSGi now provides separate options to enable import and export usage rights on a PDF to import or export data in Adobe Acrobat Reader. (NPR-39909)

### [!DNL Forms] Fixes {#forms-fixes-6516}

* When using an **Assign task** step to send a notification for an assigned task, two emails are sent instead of one to the assigned individual. (NPR-40078)
* When a user hides the table headers, it causes the previously set column width to be unset, and all columns retain the same width. (NPR-40063)
* In case you change the default password of the admin user from `admin`, while performing the `Prepare Adobe Experience Manager Server For DSC deployment` check on the AEM Forms JEE service pack it fails. (NPR-40062), (NPR-39387)
* The OutputService and AssemblerService APIs, fail to convert PDF Form to PDF/A. (NPR-39990)
* The AssemblerService not able to convert PDF to PDF/A. When a user converts PDF to PDF/A, the following error occurs: `PDFAConformance isCompliant="false" compliance="PDF/A-1b" resultLevel="Summary" ignoreUnusedResources="true" allowCertificationSignatures="true"> <Violation count="6" key="PDFA_CS_001_NOT_DEVICE_INDEPENDENT" description="ColorSpace is not device independent`. (NPR-39956)
* When server-side validation fails for a GuideSubmitServlet API call, the errors are not returned in the response sent to the client. (NPR-39925)
* After upgrading to AEM 6.5.15.0 Service Pack on Windows server, the user encounters multiple error messages, and the email service is not working. (NPR-39919)
* When you upgrade to AEM 6.5.14.0 and use importData service to merge PDFs with XML, the following error occurs: `Caused by: java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: com.adobe.xfa.form.FormModel.isXFABarcode(Lcom/adobe/xfa/Node;)Ljava/lang/Boolean`. (NPR-39807)
* When user installs **Document Security Office** extension, following issues occur:
  * Microsoft&reg; Excel crashes frequently.
  * While opening a secured document, the **Document security office** extension is not detected as installed on a machine. Instructs the user to download and install the security extension. (NPR-39768)
* After a user upgrades to AEM 6.5.15.0 Service Pack, the PostScript-to-Pdf conversion is not working. (NPR-39765), (NPR-39764)
* When user tries to open the tour screen after opening an Adaptive Form, it fails with a NullPointer exception:`[172.17.0.1[1662032923933]GET/libs/fd/af/content/editors/form/tour/content.htmlHTTP/1.1]com.day.cq.wcm.core.impl.WCMDebugFilterException:org.apache.sling.api.scripting.ScriptEvaluationException:"` (NPR-39654)
* In Windows, when user enables high contrast black settings, the HTML5 Forms content become unclear when rendered as an HTML preview in the browser. (NPR-39018)
* When the user attempts to add metadata, the Save button becomes non-functional for both the Draft and Submission components. (CQ-4349601)
* After upgrading to AEM 6.5.15.0 Service Pack, the redirection of relative URLs no longer works in the Visual Editor. (NPR-39947)
* When a user upgrades to AEM 6.5.15.0 Service Pack, the redirection stops working with Internet Explorer. (CQ-4351745)
* After a user upgrades to AEM 6.5.15.0 Service Pack, HTML heading tag is not recognized. HTML code for the heading tag is displayed as text in the HTML form. (NPR-39915)
* When the user tries to submit an Adaptive Form, a typecast error occurs: `ERROR [10.207.64.167 [1668589530607] POST /app/LS4/content/forms/af/revalidate/jcr:content/guideContainer.af.submit.jsp HTTP/1.1]`( NPR-39809)
* When a user previews a Document of Record using the **Send Email** submit action, it is not displayed correctly. The mail template embeds in the preview of the Document of Record. (CQ-4352155)
* When a user previews an Adaptive Form as an HTML on Microsoft&reg; Edge browser with IE compatibility mode, it is not displayed correctly. (CQ-4352216)
* The dictionary must include new locales with special characters, such as underscores or hyphens, to enable translation. (NPR-40088)

After installing the AEM 6.5.16.0 Forms add-on service pack, customers were facing the below listed issues. So, an updated version of [AEM 6.5.16.0 Forms add-on service pack - 6.0.914](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/forms-updates/aem-forms-releases.html) is released. Adobe recommends using the updated service pack: 
* When a user tries to create Adaptive form with a user in the forms-users group, the option to select any template is not present and the error similar to the following occurs:
internal server error: java.lang.NullPointerException
at com.adobe.aem.formsndocuments.servlet.ThemeClientLibraryDataSourceServlet.lambda$getThemeClientLibCategoryList$3(ThemeClientLibraryDataSourceServlet.java:76)
at java.base/java.util.stream.ReferencePipeline$2$1.accept(ReferencePipeline.java:176)
at java.base/java.util.Iterator.forEachRemaining(Iterator.java:133) (FORMS-7629)
* The changes made in the code editor rules are not getting saved. (FORMS-7532)

## Integrations {#integrations-6516}

* Remove Adobe Search&Promote code and dependency from Experience Manager 6.5. Adobe Search&Promote reached end-of-service September 2022. See [Adobe Search&Promote End-of-Service Announcement](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/discontinued/using/search-promote.html?lang=en). (NPR-39706)

## [!DNL Sites] {#sites-6516}

* Current `cq-wcm-core` artifactory release does not have the POM. (SITES-10983)
* The rollout preview action should not list the page to be created. (SITES-10355, CQ-4266213)
* Rollout after MSM detach recreates the detached page. (SITES-9841)
* Creating a launch is timing out; user must wait many minutes on a loading screen before the request times out. (SITES-9051)
* The Rollout Page user interface is displaying non-existent parent page paths. You can roll out the page with a success message, but the child page is not rolled out due to the parent page never getting rolled out in the first place. (SITES-8621)

### [!DNL Sites] - Core Components {#sites-core-components-6516}

* Centralize the link processing on e-mail pages so that model customizations are not needed anymore. (SITES-9002)

### [!DNL Sites] - Admin User Interface {#sites-adminui-6516}

* CSV Export is not exporting all the pages under the selected page. (SITES-9390)

### [!DNL Sites] - [!DNL Content Fragments] {#sites-contentfragments-6516}

* Unable to print a content fragment's JSON. The reason is because the GraphQL query cannot be generated when you open the content fragment's Preview page. (SITES-8619)
* When reopening the Content Fragment Model Editor, all **[!UICONTROL Date and Time]** fields are defaulting to Date & Time type. (SITES-8401)

### [!DNL Sites] - [!DNL Experience Fragments] {#sites-experiencefragments-6516}

* You are unable to move an Experience Fragment to another folder even if the template is listed under allowed templates. (SITES-8601)
* (SITES-7989)


### [!DNL Sites] - Page Editor {#sites-pageeditor-6516}

* Update dependencies for the resource resolver improvement made in SITES-8464 in which page rendering in Authoring mode created a high number of `TemplatedResourceImpl` objects. (SITES-9350)


## Sling {#sling-6516}

* Experience Manager is deadlocked on startup. (NPR-39832)
* When many vanity paths are present in Experience Manager's version storage, Experience Manager fails to start. (NPR-38955)


## Translation projects {#translation-6516}

* In `MicrosoftTranslationServiceImpl`, the query string parameter `Category` is incorrect. (NPR-39828)
* Creating a translation project displays the error *Master page resource does not exist*; the translation project is not created. (NPR-39762)
* Unable to set a due date on a translation project that uses a human translation connector. (NPR-39593)

## User interface {#ui-6516}

* When changing to a smaller resolution, the DatePicker does not display, and the AM/PM select does not display or change visibly. (NPR-39948)
* When minify js (minimization of JavaScript) is used, it does not process the minification due to a parsing error. (NPR-39650)
* Tag field (`/libs/cq/gui/components/coral/common/form/tagfield`) conflicts with timeline. (CQ-4350751)


## WCM {#wcm-6516}

* The rollout preview action should not list the page to be created. (CQ-4266213, SITES-10355) 

## Workflow {#workflow-6516}

* Manually deleting the editable workflow model from `/conf` leaves a lingering runtime model instance without an editable model. (CQ-4349365)


## Install [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 {#install}

<!-- Remaining content from here to bottom stays the same except for version updating as needed as per update team feedback. -->

* [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 requires [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5. See [upgrade documentation](/help/sites-deploying/upgrade.md) for detailed instructions. <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->
* The service pack download is available on Adobe [Software Distribution](https://experience.adobe.com/#/downloads/content/software-distribution/en/aem.html).
* On a deployment with MongoDB and multiple instances, install [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 on one of the Author instances using the Package Manager.<!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
> Adobe does not recommend that you remove or uninstall the [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 package. As such, before you install the pack, you should create a backup of the `crx-repository` in case you have to roll it back. <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->
<!-- For instructions to install Service Pack for AEM Forms, see [AEM Forms Service Pack installation instructions](/help/release-notes/aem-forms-current-service-pack-installation-instructions.md). -->


### Install the service pack on [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5 {#install-service-pack}

1.  Restart the instance before installation if the instance is in update mode (when the instance was updated from an earlier version). Adobe recommends a restart if the current uptime for an instance is high.

1.  Before installing, take a snapshot or a fresh backup of your [!DNL Experience Manager] instance.

1.  Download the service pack from [Software Distribution](https://experience.adobe.com/#/downloads/content/software-distribution/en/aem.html?package=/content/software-distribution/en/details.html/content/dam/aem/public/adobe/packages/cq650/servicepack/aem-service-pkg-6.5.15.0.zip). <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

1.  Open Package Manager, then select **[!UICONTROL Upload Package]** to upload the package. To know more, see [Package Manager](/help/sites-administering/package-manager.md).

1.  Select the package, then select **[!UICONTROL Install]**.

1.  To update the S3 connector, stop the instance after installation of the Service Pack, replace the existing connector with a new binary file provided in the install folder, and restart the instance. See [Amazon S3 Data Store](/help/sites-deploying/data-store-config.md#upgrading-to-a-new-version-of-the-s-connector).

>[!NOTE]
>
>Dialog on Package Manager UI sometimes exits during the installation of the service pack. Adobe recommends that you wait for error logs to stabilize before accessing the deployment. Wait for the specific logs related to the uninstall of the updater bundle before being assured that the installations is successful. Typically, this issue occurs in [!DNL Safari] browser but can intermittently occur on any browser.

**Automatic installation**

There are two different methods that you can use to automatically install [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0.<!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

* Place the package into `../crx-quickstart/install` folder when the server is available online. The package is automatically installed.
* Use the [HTTP API from Package Manager](/help/sites-administering/package-manager.md#package-share). Use `cmd=install&recursive=true` so that the nested packages are installed.

>[!NOTE]
>
>Experience Manager 6.5.16.0 does not support Bootstrap installation. <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

**Validate the installation**

To know the platforms that are certified to work with this release, see the [technical requirements](/help/sites-deploying/technical-requirements.md).

1.  The product information page (`/system/console/productinfo`) displays the updated version string `Adobe Experience Manager (6.5.16.0)` under [!UICONTROL Installed Products]. <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

1.  All OSGi bundles are either **[!UICONTROL ACTIVE]** or **[!UICONTROL FRAGMENT]** in the OSGi Console (Use Web Console: `/system/console/bundles`).

1.  The OSGi bundle `org.apache.jackrabbit.oak-core` is version 1.22.14 or later (Use Web Console: `/system/console/bundles`). <!-- NPR-39939 for 6.5.16.0 --> <!-- NPR-39436 for 6.5.15.0 --> <!-- OAK Oak oak VERSION -MAY- NEED TO BE UPDATED FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

### Install Service Pack for [!DNL Experience Manager] Forms {#install-aem-forms-add-on-package}

For instructions to install the service pack on AEM Forms, see [AEM Forms Service Pack installation instructions](/help/release-notes/aem-forms-current-service-pack-installation-instructions.md).

### Install GraphQL Index Package for Experience Manager Content Fragments {#install-aem-graphql-index-add-on-package}

Customers using GraphQL should install the [AEM Content Fragment with GraphQL Index Package 1.0.5](https://experience.adobe.com/#/downloads/content/software-distribution/en/aem.html?package=%2Fcontent%2Fsoftware-distribution%2Fen%2Fdetails.html%2Fcontent%2Fdam%2Faem%2Fpublic%2Fadobe%2Fpackages%2Fcq650%2Ffeaturepack%2Fcfm-graphql-index-def-1.0.5.zip). 

Doing so lets you add the required index definition based on the features they actually use.

Failure to install this package may result in slow or failed GraphQL queries.

>[!NOTE]
>
>Only install this package once per instance; it does not need to be reinstalled with every Service Pack.

### UberJar {#uber-jar}

The UberJar for [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0 is available in the [Maven Central repository](https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/com/adobe/aem/uber-jar/6.5.15/). <!-- CHECK FOR UPDATE EACH NEW RELEASE -->

>[!NOTE]
>
>In Experience Manager 6.5.16.0, the UberJar version (6.5.15.0) remains the same as the previous release.


To use UberJar in a Maven project, see [how to use UberJar](/help/sites-developing/ht-projects-maven.md) and include the following dependency in your project POM: <!-- CHECK FOR UPDATE EACH NEW RELEASE -->

```shell
<dependency>
     <groupId>com.adobe.aem</groupId>
     <artifactId>uber-jar</artifactId>
     <version>6.5.15</version>
     <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

>[!NOTE]
>
>UberJar and the other related artifacts are available on Maven Central Repository instead of Adobe Public Maven repository (`repo.adobe.com`). The main UberJar file is renamed to `uber-jar-<version>.jar`. So, there is no `classifier`, with `apis` as the value, for the `dependency` tag.

## Deprecated features {#removed-deprecated-features}

Below is a list of features and capabilities that are marked as deprecated with [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.7.0. Features are marked deprecated initially and later removed in a future release. An alternate option is provided.

Review if you use a feature or a capability in a deployment. Also, plan to change the implementation to use an alternate option.

| Area | Feature | Replacement |
|---|---|---|
| Integrations | The screen **[!UICONTROL AEM Cloud Services Opt-In]** is deprecated since the [!DNL Experience Manager] and [!DNL Adobe Target] integration is updated in [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5. The integration supports the Adobe Target Standard API. The API uses authentication by way of Adobe IMS and [!DNL Adobe I/O Runtime]. It supports the growing role of Adobe Launch to instrument [!DNL Experience Manager] pages for analytics and personalization, the opt-in wizard is functionally irrelevant. | Configure system connections, Adobe IMS authentication, and [!DNL Adobe I/O Runtime] integrations via the respective [!DNL Experience Manager] cloud services. |
| Connectors | The Adobe JCR Connector for Microsoft&reg; SharePoint 2010 and Microsoft&reg; SharePoint 2013 is deprecated for [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5. | N/A |

## Known issues {#known-issues}

<!-- THESE KNOWN ISSUES CARRY OVER EACH RELEASE. THE "PRODUCT UPDATES TEAM" IS SUPPOSED TO VERIFY EACH ISSUE AND LET YOU KNOW IF ANYTHING NEEDS TO BE ADDED, DELETED, OR CHANGED IN THIS LIST.
 -->
<!-- REMOVED AS PER CQDOC-20022, JANUARY 23, 2023 * If you install [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5 Service Pack 10 or a previous service pack on [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5, the runtime copy of your assets custom workflow model (created in `/var/workflow/models/dam`) is deleted.
To retrieve your runtime copy, Adobe recommends to synchronize the design-time copy of the custom workflow model with its runtime copy using the HTTP API:
`<designModelPath>/jcr:content.generate.json`. -->

* Update your GraphQL queries that may have used a custom API name for your content model to using the default name of the content model instead.

* A GraphQL query may use the `damAssetLucene` index instead of the `fragments` index. As such, it might result in GraphQL queries that fail, or take a long time to run.

  To correct the problem, `damAssetLucene` has to be configured to include the following two properties:

  * `contentFragment`
  * `model`

  After the index definition is changed, a reindexing is required (`reindex` = `true`).

  After these steps, the GraphQL queries should perform faster.

* When trying to move/delete/publish either Content Fragments or Sites/Pages, there is an issue when Content Fragment references are fetched, as the background query fails. That is, the functionality does not work.
  To ensure correct operation, you must add the following properties to the index definition node `/oak:index/damAssetLucene` (no reindexing is required):

   ```xml
   "tags": [
       "visualSimilaritySearch"
     ]
   "refresh": true
   ```

* As [!DNL Microsoft&reg; Windows Server 2019] does not support [!DNL MySQL 5.7] and [!DNL JBoss&reg; EAP 7.1], [!DNL Microsoft&reg; Windows Server 2019] does not support turnkey installations for [!DNL AEM Forms 6.5.10.0].

* If you upgrade your [!DNL Experience Manager] instance from 6.5.0 - 6.5.4 to the latest service pack on Java&trade; 11, you see `RRD4JReporter` exceptions in the `error.log` file. To stop the exceptions, restart your instance of [!DNL Experience Manager]. <!-- THIS BULLET POINT WAS UPDATED AS PER CQDOC-20021, JANUARY 23, 2023 --> 

* Users can rename a folder in a hierarchy in [!DNL Assets] and publish a nested folder to [!DNL Brand Portal]. However, the title of the folder is not updated in [!DNL Brand Portal] until the root folder is republished.

* When a user selects to configure a field for the first time in an adaptive form, the option to save a configuration does not display in Properties Browser. Selecting to configure some other field of the adaptive form in the same editor resolves the issue.

* The following errors and warning messages may display during installation of [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.x.x:
  * "When the Adobe Target integration is configured in [!DNL Experience Manager] using the Target Standard API (IMS authentication), then exporting Experience Fragments to Target results in wrong offer types getting created. Instead of type "Experience Fragment"/source "Adobe Experience Manager," Target creates several offers with type "HTML"/source "Adobe Target Classic."
  * `com.adobe.granite.maintenance.impl.TaskScheduler`: No maintenance windows found at granite/operations/maintenance.
  * Adaptive Form server-side validation fails when aggregate functions such as SUM, MAX, and MIN are used (CQ-4274424).
  * `com.adobe.granite.maintenance.impl.TaskScheduler` - No maintenance windows found at granite/operations/maintenance.
  * Hotspot in a Dynamic Media interactive image is not visible when previewing the asset through Shoppable Banner viewer.
  * `com.adobe.cq.social.cq-social-jcr-provider bundle com.adobe.cq.social.cq-social-jcr-provider:1.3.5 (395)[com.adobe.cq.social.provider.jcr.impl.SpiSocialJcrResourceProviderImpl(2302)]` : Timeout waiting for register change to complete unregistered.

* In AEM Forms, POP3 protocol does not work with email endpoints for Microsoft&reg; Office 365.
* On JBoss&reg; 7.1.4 platform, when a user installs AEM 6.5.16.0 service pack, `adobe-livecycle-jboss.ear` deployment fails. 
* Starting with AEM 6.5.15, the Rhino JavaScript Engine provided by the ```org.apache.servicemix.bundles.rhino``` bundle has a new hoisting behavior. Scripts that use the strict mode (```use strict;```) have to correctly declare their variables, otherwise they will not get executed, instead throwing a runtime error.

## OSGi bundles and content packages included {#osgi-bundles-and-content-packages-included}

The following text documents list the OSGi bundles and Content Packages included in [!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5.16.0: <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

* [List of OSGi bundles included in Experience Manager 6.5.16.0](/help/release-notes/assets/65160_bundles.txt) <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->
* [List of Content Packages included in Experience Manager 6.5.16.0](/help/release-notes/assets/65160_packages.txt) <!-- UPDATE FOR EACH NEW RELEASE -->

## Restricted websites {#restricted-sites}

These websites are only available to customers. If you are a customer and need access, contact your Adobe account manager.

* [Product download at licensing.adobe.com](https://licensing.adobe.com/)
* [Contact Adobe Customer Support](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/customer-one/using/home.html).

>[!MORELIKETHIS]
>
>* [[!DNL Experience Manager] product page](https://business.adobe.com/products/experience-manager/adobe-experience-manager.html)
>* [[!DNL Experience Manager] 6.5 documentation](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-65.html)
>* [Subscribe to Adobe priority product updates](https://www.adobe.com/subscription/priority-product-update.html)
